What?
No hustle, no muscle!
Adult adam:
Gym class in the '80s...
The shorts were super-short,
the exercises dumb,
And the games were barbaric.
I know you're aiming
for down there, ryan,
but it's not cool!
Teams weren't assigned,
But handpicked
with brutal honesty
And no consideration
of a fragile
adolescent's feelings.
Oh, god. This is
not gonna be easy.
I'm gonna have to go
with small wonder
over there.
You're going down,
goldnerd.
Sorry.
After years of thinking
I had suffered through
Every indignity
gym class had to offer,
Turns out the worst
was yet to come.
The presidential
fitness test...
Our great president,
ronald reagan,
Along with
the predator himself,
arnold schwarzenegger,
Care enough about you
to demand physical excellence.
Technically, arnold
wasn't the predator.
He was the prey.
Nobody cares, goldfarb.
It's goldberg.
It's literally
written on my shirt.
Good for you.
Now, why is this
test important?
America needs warriors
to fight the evils
of communism.
Tomorrow,
that battle begins with
the seven basic exercises,
Which include
the sit-and-reach,
The mile run,
and the pull-up.
What if you can't
do a pull-up?
I'm asking hypothetically
for a friend
That couldn't make it
today.
Name's josh.
You don't know him.
Well, if you are
the kind of boy
Who is weak of
will and spirit,
You don't have to do it.
(sighs)
Instead,
you will join the girls
in the flexed arm hang.
Josh is not gonna like that.
The news was bleak.
I was definitely screwed.
I mean, josh was screwed.
Honey, it's so late.
Why are you sitting alone
in the dark?
Oh, no.
What's the matter?
Nothing.
Poopie,
something's wrong.
There's a storm
inside you,
And I'm not leaving
till I see a little sunshine.
Why do you always say
super-weird stuff like that?
Looks like someone
needs a sugar shower.
(smooching)
all right. All right!
(grunts) stop!
(laughs)
If you must know,
The presidential fitness test
is tomorrow,
And I'm gonna be the only guy
doing the flexed arm hang
with the girls.
Say no more.
Mama will never, ever
let anything
Remotely uncomfortable
happen to you.
I'll just write you a note
and get you out of it.
For real?
Absolutely.
Absolutely not.
Every kid in america
has to take that test.
Well, what does that
have to do with
my adam? (chuckles)
It's a rite of passage.
You can't get out of
a rite of passage
With a note
from your mom.
Fine! We get it.
I won't write a note.
(sighs)
I'll write you a note.
Seriously?
I'm gonna hug you
so hard right now,
I might break every bone
in your body.
Oh. (laughs)
Oh, come on, adam.
Don't be scared.
You can hug me
harder than that.
Okay.
How does this feel?
(grunting)
Mama will write you
a note. (chuckles)
♪ I'm twisted up inside
♪ but nonetheless
I feel the need to say
♪ I don't know the future
♪ but the past keeps getting
clearer every day ♪
It was April 8,
1980-something.
Before e-mail and facetime,
The way to keep in touch
with somebody
Was by sending them
an actual piece of paper
with writing on it!
Are you kidding me?
Where are your pants?
My pen pal will be here
any minute.
Doesn't having a pen pal
come to your house
Defeat the whole purpose
of having a pen pal?
Fanny's just gonna be here
for a few days.
You can suffer through
by wearing bottoms.
And for the love
of all that is holy,
be nice to the girl.
Why wouldn't I
be nice to her?
We speak
the same language.
(imitating speaking french)
Mom, if he doesn't not
wear his pants
And stop speaking
french gibberish,
I will leave this house
forever.
(angrily imitating french)
Come on, ambassador.
Let's get you some pants.
That means nothing!
(sighs)
Whoa! What is this?
Why do you look like
a bigger knob than usual?
'cause I saw that pic
of your sexually charged
french friend,
And I am not letting this
amazing opportunity go
to waste.
Oh, no.
Just because she's french
doesn't mean
she'll make out with you.
(scoffs)
pops: I beg to differ,
actually.
In my experience,
The french  demoiselle
is very adventurous.
What's her name again?
Fanny.
Oh, that's a lay-up.
Score!
Pops!
What? She's named
after a butt.
That's a green light
if I ever saw one.
Erica, I'm gonna
need your help.
Here's a bunch of phrases
I need translated
into her native tongue
So I can get a little
of that native tongue.
"girl, our countries
have been at war too long.
"let's make peace and love
together."
Mmm-hmm.
You know what?
I will help you.
Nice.
I can tell by that smile
we're on the same page.
You're gonna mess
with him, aren't you?
(scoffs) big time.
I don't know how
he doesn't see
That kind of thing coming
by now.
It's very upsetting.
While erica
was scheming against barry,
My mom's scheme to get me
out of gym class
was in motion.
You have osgood-schladder
disease?
Actually,
it's pronounced "schlodder,"
And there's
an article attached.
My hamstrings and ligaments
aren't keeping up
with my bones.
I'm growing too fast.
You're growing too fast?
Where?
It's all in the note.
You really
expect me to believe
Your mother wrote
this note?
Yes, 'cause she actually did.
Son, did you ever see
the movie  red dawn?
(scoffs)
a million times.
Do you love movies?
'cause I love movies.
Let me ask you
a question.
What are you gonna do
when the russki invaders
Storm the suburbs
of philly?
Actually, I think
they'd be more interested
In coastal cities
and financial centers.
You're gonna
have to fight
And use the skills
you learned right here!
Even the pull-up?
Especially the pull-up.
You'll need your upper-arm
strength to bash skulls.
I don't want to
bash skulls.
The kids in  red dawn
didn't want to, either,
But they had to
in order to survive.
So, where are we
with that note?
I just received
an authentic,
bona fide note
From mr. Goldfarb here
saying that he is
physically unable
To complete
the presidential fitness test.
So, I've decided
to push the test one week
until he gets better.
Until then,
we'll be running laps.
(students groan)
mr. Goldfarb will
stand here and watch.
Feel free to wish him
a speedy recovery
in your own way.
All right! Let's go!
Hoof it! Knees high!
(whistle blows)
You're so dead,
goldnerd.
Totally get it.
(sighs)
Hey, ow.
Oh, real nice, lisa.
Real nice.
Meanwhile, erica's pen pal,
fanny, had arrived
And was getting
the grand tour
of the goldberg home.
(speaking french)
Fantastique.
(both laugh)
(crunch)
'sup, fanny?
Mi casa es su casa.
Hunk of
your native bread?
Oh. Barree.  Bonjour.
Hi.
Oh, here.
Use these cards
I translated for you.
Start with this one.
It says,
"welcome to our home.
"it's really nice
to have you here."
(speaking french haltingly)
Mmm-hmm. Mmm-hmm.
Good stuff. Great start.
Um, I know you want to do
this next one.
It's "how you doing, girl?"
(laughs)
She likes it.
Yeah, it's working.
Don't stop now.
Okay...
It sounded like
I said "gary coleman."
Weird.
Beautiful language.
Good night.
Or should I say...
Let me tell you something,
mr. And mrs. Goldfarb.
There are three things
I hate in life...
My ex-wife,
carrots, and lies.
Okay, why did
I close my store
and rush down here?
Because president reagan
asked me personally
Through a xeroxed letter
to oversee a fitness test
of his design.
And your son tried to
get out of it
with an absurd note...
That no parent
would ever write.
Um...
I wrote the note.
Oh (bleep) me.
It was a ridiculous test,
murray.
Since when
is strength measured
By how many pull-ups
a person can do?
You know
what takes real strength?
Tackling the role
of levi
In  joseph and the amazing
technicolor dreamcoat.
And adam was scrumptious.
There's nothing wrong
with my test, ma'am.
If adam suffers
from anything,
It is from
a far more serious
And permanent condition
called the wuss-bags.
Hey. My son
may be unathletic
and afraid of birds...
He's not afraid
of all birds.
I know, not all birds.
Not all birds.
But he's not a wuss.
Look, I am administering
a test at the direct order
Of the president
of the United States.
If you want adam out of it,
get a note from him.
Then it's settled.
I'll see you back here
on Monday.
What just happened?
She's gonna go get a note
from the president.
Look out, mr. Reagan.
Beverly goldberg's
coming for you.
My mom's mission to
track down the president
had begun.
First stop... Harrisburg,
the state capital.
Hello.
I'm pennsylvania citizen
beverly goldberg,
And I'm here
to speak to the governor.
Um...This is
the comptroller's office.
Great. Then I'll speak to
the comptroller.
Uh, and what does this
pertain to?
The presidential
fitness test.
And the comptroller
can help how?
He can put me in touch
with the governor,
Who can put me in touch
with the president
So I can get my son
out of gym class.
Ah. Question...
Do you have any idea
what a comptroller does?
Of course. He comptrols
the great state
of pennsylvania,
And I need him
to get me to the man
who comptrols america.
Here's a thing...
Uh, "comptrol,"
The way you're using it,
isn't a word.
Yes, it is.
No. No, it's not.
It is.
Not really.
Yeah, it is.
Definitely not a word...
Straight-up not a word.
Uh, but I get the sense
you're not gonna leave,
So here's
what I'm gonna do.
There's a guy in
the state assembly's office
Who screwed over
my sister.
I think
he should meet you.
Sound good?
Sounds great.
Now, I'm just gonna
write down these directions,
And when you see him,
just tell him,
"jill's brother
says hi."
Thank you for taking comptrol
of the situation.
Not a word.
Yes, it is.
Meanwhile,
my brother was working on
his french connection.
Good morning,
mon cherie.
Hello, barree.
Hi.
Getting into this
right away, huh, barry?
What? I'm just showing her
a traditional american
breakfast.
(over-enunciating) fanny,
this is called a pop-tart.
In america, we eat our fruit
inside bread...
For you.
Merci.
You know what else
goes down easy
in the morning?
Rap music.
Erica, you translated
my masterpiece, right?
Every word.
It's called  "mon lit."
It means "my bed."
(cassette deck clicks)
(mid-tempo beat plays)
(rapping in french)
Enough. I'm sorry.
I have to stop this.
It's too far.
You speak french?
How many times
do I have to
tell you this?
I was in the war.
I helped liberate France.
That was real?
I'm confused.
What's happening?
The song...
It's about peeing
in your bed.
That wasn't
your intention, right?
No! No.
(both laugh)
it had the word "pee-pee"
in it, like, a lot.
(both laugh)
What the hell, erica?
I asked you for your help,
and you made a fool of me?
I told you
not to hit on my friend.
I mean,
did you actually think
you had a chance with her?
I don't know!
I mean, the girls here
don't get me at all,
So I thought someone
from another country might.
Now you ruined that, too.
While barry
had lost faith in romance,
I still had faith
in my mom.
Has mom come back
from the president's
house yet?
Are you kidding? No.
Have you checked
the answering machine?
Maybe mr. Reagan
left a message or something.
You know, the president's
a very busy man.
He might not have time
to help one little boy
get out of gym class.
He likes jelly beans.
No, no,
he's got a fun side,
But I think you might
want to consider
That your mom's not gonna
come through on this.
I know
it's a bit of a long shot,
But she's never
let me down before.
And then something happened
more surprising
Than my mom getting a note
from the president.
Come here, buddy.
I want to talk to you.
My dad decided
to open up to me.
You know why I really
want you to take this test?
You need an outlet
for your hostility?
No!
Stop aggravating me!
I'm trying
to help you here, man.
Okay, I'm gonna
tell you something
Your brother and sister
don't know.
I played a lot of sports
in high school,
But there was one thing
I could never do... Swim.
What?
Yeah.
I grew up in the city.
Where would I learn?
Well, you could
take the bus
to the beach,
Or there's summer camps.
The ymca
has a very nice program.
How about I talk,
you listen?
I tried everything
in my power
To get out of
that swim class
'cause I knew
if I got in the pool,
I'd humiliate myself
in front of everybody.
So, what did you do?
I got in
that damn pool!
At first,
I was embarrassed,
But by the end
of the semester,
I... I developed
quite a mean backstroke.
Really?
Yeah!
You don't have to be
the best.
You just got to try.
Well, since you
were an athlete
back in the day,
Maybe you could help me
with my pull-ups.
Let's get to work.
Come on!
(eye of the tiger plays)
(drill whirs)
(coughs)
Let's do this.
(eye of the tiger stops)
I did it.
I got a note
from the president
Of the United States
of america.
Huh?
Actually, it's from
the secretary
To the undersecretary
to the president,
Who's the best friend of
the lieutenant governor's
cousin
Who just wanted to
get me out of the office,
But it's got
the presidential seal,
so it's official.
Wow. But no.
Adam and I
just had a talk,
And he understands
the importance
of just trying.
I'll take the note!
I'll take the note.
(sighs)
mom, you're the best.
I'll see you
around the tv sometime.
And, just like that,
I had a presidential pardon
from fitness.
Fanny just left
for the airport.
You didn't
want to say goodbye?
What's the point?
She thinks
I'm a bed-wetting loser,
thanks to you.
Actually,
I don't think she does.
Look,
she left you this note.
Oh, no!
I don't read french!
Right. But I do.
"barry, sorry I was
so weird around you.
"american boys
intimidate me,
"especially the ones
who are so good at sports,
"nun chucking, and frisbee."
She knows about
my frisbee skills?
Did she write
about the sketch I gave her
of us riding a dolphin?
No. But she did say
if you're ever in paris,
look her up.
Does it really say that?
Yes.
It does.
It really does.
Looks like she was
into you, kiddo.
I'm not surprised.
I'm irresistible.
Hey.
This is a thank-you note
to your parents.
Well, I felt sorry
for the big dope.
No, you care about him.
Maybe a little.
Well, it was
a nice thing to do.
It was, but unfortunately,
it led to this.
(eye of the tiger plays)
(seatbelt clicks)
(engine turns over)
I've got to stop
that plane!
(tires squeal)
I'm coming, fanny!
I'm coming for you!
Thanks to my mom,
I was free.
And even so,
I could hear my dad's voice
ringing in my head.
Murray:  Adam,
I really think you should
take this test.
Turns out
it actually was my dad.
Dad, what are
you doing here?
I came here
to tell you something.
(sighs) I can't swim.
But you said you...
I know what I said.
But I lied.
I cut that class,
and I... I never learned how.
It's the biggest regret
of my life,
And I don't
want you growing up
Having the same regrets
I do.
Goldfarb,
get your ass in here!
I may never
be able to swim,
But I know
you can do one pull-up.
(eye of the tiger plays)
All right, goldfarb.
Ready for the flexed arm hang?
No. Today,
I'm doing pull-ups.
Hey.
You can't park there.
It's okay. I'm here
to see a girl.
I'm in love.
You got it, chief.
That's how the world works.
We need a tow truck
at terminal 3.
(woman speaking indistinctly
on p.A. System)
♪ rising up
♪ back on the street
♪ did my time
♪ took my chances
♪ went the distance
whoa!
It's... It's okay.
It's okay.
♪ now I'm back on my feet
I just have
a pocket knife.
All right, go ahead.
You're good.
Let's go, goldfarb.
The president is waiting.
♪ you trade your passion
for glory
♪ it's the eye of the tiger
♪ it's the thrill
of the fight
♪ rising up to the challenge
of our rival
♪ and the last known survivor
stalks his prey in the night
♪ and he's watching us all
with the eye
(panting)
♪ of the tiger
(laughs)
Attaboy!
Yes! Whoo!
Yeah!
My lord, that was
the ugliest pull-up
I've ever seen.
You'll still get killed
in the first wave
of attacks,
But maybe, just maybe,
You'll take a couple of
those commie bastards
with you.
Well done, goldberg.
♪ the eye of the tiger
Man on p.A. System:
Last call for flight 612
to paris, France.
Barry: Wait...
Hold the plane!
Fanny!
Fanny.
Shh. Stop telling me
you love me.
It's not meant to be.
I have to stay here
and become an american
sports and music icon.
But we'll always have
pop-tarts, fanny.
We'll always
have pop-tarts.
She kissed me.
Twice.
Two french kisses.
Whoo!
♪ eye of the tiger
it's the thrill of the fight
♪ rising up to the challenge
of our rival
(grunts)
okay, that's enough.
No more.
I like his little
baby arms.
I'm gonna
chew on those arms!
Oh!
Tickle, tickle!
Will you stop it?
What do you do that for?
I love him so much.
Okay, I tackled my fear.
Now it's your turn.
(grunting)
Kick. Kick.
Use your legs.
I'm kicking.
See, you're doing it.
I'm doing it!
Keep on going.
All right.
(grunts)
Come on,
give it all you got.
Come on.
A little bit.
Yes! Whoo!
(both laugh)
Has anyone seen my car?
I know the sign says
you can't park there,
But it's okay
'cause I'm in love.
Hasta la vista, baby.
(thud)